00:01
So how I approach this problem again it's like pretty much every question is an opportunity for you to show off so tell us about yourself you can answer an affiliate different ways right you can tell them about like how you grew up or you could tell them about like what your experience was like in college you could tell them about like what you do when you oh about your love for lights, like exactly so we don't just want to approach it normally like, Different people when they actually use questions or give a different answer right so like your friends ask you this question but like a new friend you would probably give a more personal answer maybe talking about like where you grew up and like your hobbies and stuff like that, you don't really want to do that when you're asking for a company because it doesn't really give them any more signal it doesn't depend I when why would a company carry that you like that's it doesn't really prove that you're a good employee so how I approach this problem.

01:05
Is I describe it from a job perspective so specifically like since we're all trying to be software engineers you should talk more about why you got into software engineering and more importantly why you enjoy it so honestly you can hear a lot of the stuff that we've been teaching you and you'll face this question so I talk about why you love coding right talk about the story of how you're going to be coding like oh I saw I played a video game and I really wanted to build another video game for so fun.

01:36
I want to bring. For like you know my dad taught me like how to write a basic program when I was young and I just like really really fun coding with my dad that's why I love you tell this story and then tell like the motivation of like why you got into it?

01:52
I hopefully it's like something noble and it's a little bit tricky something. I know a lot of people who got into software engineering just to make money which is a perfectly fine reason to go into software engineering, but you don't want to tell them that because they make you sound really selfish don't say even if it's true maybe you have to make something up give.

02:13
You give like a more noble reason like and for what we've been telling you like it should be easy to come up with honestly if you just say because I want to help people like bringing good experiences that people on scale that that works out but yeah, sometimes you have to lie, I think a less noble person, you know, you got a liar yeah, hopefully after all of you are very normal honest answer.

02:40
Good. Company that you're you want to make a positive impact and you're going to bring that really company and make it a better. And then again, this is another opportunity to kind of show off your portfolio as late like work into a lot of his answers when you are answering tells about yourself some of the things about yourself are the things you've accomplished so after you talk about why your computer science and why you think?

03:07
Of them why you think it will allow you to make positive impact on the world you can talk about some of the things you built. Show them your apps your website your portfolio tell about the impact that it has like I have this amount of users. I have like these reviews that say that app is good and it makes me like really helpful it makes me like see how helpful this is making you feel really good about myself so so just to cover the entire thing like focus on the reason you're in software engineering on the motivation and some history about how you got it to it, and then I talk about this stuff you've done and why you're proud of it.

03:50
Why you think it's the products that you've built so far are good products and like are making like a positive difference. Yeah, yeah. Any other questions that you have to deal with time oh he's doing your first time. It's like honestly I. Question. I really hate. It crappy question.

04:17
Please oh you can't really answer. Me, of course, so yeah, yeah, so.

04:32
Fires a lot. Like you but most people rolling oh yeah well, okay, please. So most people that I know when they write code they don't write code outside of work which is perfectly fine right even if you enjoy something when you do it for like six eight ten hours a day you go back home yeah gets boring you don't want to do it anymore right everyone gets tired if you even if you love it, you can get tired of it the amount is.

05:06
Too hot so that's why I really hate that question because. Most people like either just be honest and it's a worthless answer to them or you lie they're just small like I consider myself lucky because I have I I like voting enough that I do it outside of work so I talk about that and that helps me but like most people they can't honestly give that answer and that's okay so going back to how to answer that question.

05:37
Honest, just be honest and so it's like similar to how when they ask you like, where do you see yourself in ten years like they don't really care. That much about it, they just care that you have the answer in your company. I don't really care who you're dreaming but I do care that you have a dream and you're super excited about it and you're like really motivated.

06:00
So just talk about the things that you legitimately love and I think what's most important is you should explain like why love doing those things like for example, I can feel like I love photography. I love taking like beautiful pictures of nature and this this is something I really enjoy because I love nature.

06:22
I care a lot about the environment and I really enjoy sharing like these. Are with my friends Something like that Well I think what's important is just make sure that you sound very confident in your answer and you explain like why you love these things? You just go like, oh yeah, I play the video game to my spare time like you just give a week answer like that.

06:44
It's a waste of time. Even if it's something like video games like you play it for a reason, right? Like time is the most valuable resource. So like even if it's like something that may not be as exciting a hobby like playing video games, like you should still explain why.

07:03
Do you do it? Because anything that we do like there's there's a strong reason why we do it, right. There's a million things that we can do in our time and if you like the three four or five things you choose like you choose them for at least there's a reason they beat out those nine hundred ninety-nine thousand other things.

07:23
So does that make sense you don't stress? I really hate that question.

07:36
Yeah, because you can't really talk like if you start collecting about a company for that question, that's like stupid. Oh, yeah. I love thinking about your company.

07:52
Any other questions? Or more about. Anything. And why is you think we should plan?

08:07
This one. Yeah. Okay, so let's pretend. We're at Facebook. I am a Facebook interviewer. I already worked at Facebook. Wait, it's just applied to us to work at Facebook. So I made a very good. So late. Why should I hire you? Why should I hire you for Facebook? Why should I meet your part of the Facebook?

08:33
The reason I collect the Facebook is because I'm really passionate about their mission. I think the idea of collecting people around the world makes a huge implicant impact not just from a social media perspective like. Facebook, but I very stories and run online about people who have for example been able to connect with other carriers of rare diseases and have felt a sense of community and being able to relate to people who have are very rare form of cancer or very very disease that like prevent being able to walk or do an influence and they've been able to find that since community through Facebook.

09:10
For me, I've always wanted to customize people as possible. And I feel like it's hard to find the ability or scope to do that anywhere in the world except for a company like Facebook which over two billion people use every month. And as a developer a Facebook, I would focus my energy on this problem.

09:34
This is something I'm passionate about and I care about a lot and it's what drives me to even want to understand first place. And I have a lot of ideas around this area as well. And like we pause like the interview. This is, Where you can. Start eventually some of your ideas or this is where you could actually take the interview in the direction that you want.

09:57
Like for all the interviews that you. Like they give it to you almost like an open hand and they want you to take care of it. All up questions. So there's a lot of people's results. So like I wanted to speak more like also. There are a lot of people who like Facebook and care about what it does.

10:20
All of this giant group of people. Why should I hire you over all of you? I think that I'm also different. Similar. For example, one of the problems I notice in my local community is that people were not able to find doctors near them to solve to focus on their specific issue that they have they weren't able to even like not that I have this illness like where should I go?

10:47
So I created an app that actually reminded some what MD like APIs and how people self diagnose are at least get an idea of like what kind of issues are facing so that they know what kind of doctor to go to and, Because of this I got to see the value of being able to think about probleming and being able to fix it and I know all the hard stuff that I face so many challenges when trying to figure out how to properly process the information.

11:24
I have lots of experience and understanding like usual problems So like I know that the average engineer doesn't do this as much a lot of the conversation. I have a passion for working with people as well. I like to sit down and talk and empathize with others and this helps me even figure out the problems to work.

11:44
Actually the reason I thought of working on this app for the first place is because I was sitting down with a bunch of different like it was a friend. It was a teacher. It was like a local community member and I kept hearing the same thing over and over.

11:59
Again So I thought like why not just do something simple to help us and that the idea actually started out much simpler than what I explained but I think my experience on something is kind of like problems my desire to work with people and my curiosity to just ask questions to understand makes me I could fit for Facebook because Facebook is the people first company and my approach to technology and developing is always been people whose.

12:25
Yeah, so like leaving the interview space like at a high level most of these questions you start off with some contacts from. You've done your homework on the company. You essentially want to make them feel good about themselves like make the interviewer feel good about the company that they currently work in.

12:43
After that, you sell yourself talk about your portfolio. Talk about your accomplishments. Make sure that you give all your answers with a high degree of confidence to like really show like. I have thought a lot about this problem. I delivered results trying to solve this problem and here's like, here's the fruit.

13:04
So are there any other questions that people want us to cover? We can also go through like an old question we can just do. This interview as well. Do you guys want to have any questions about like the answers that we think is this? Yes. What about us? Well, yeah.

13:32
What really do you have conflict with someone? You have no place.

13:43
Yeah. They want to know. Your priorities for this kind of machine. So start off with a baseline. How can I relate to this person? When we both have the same goal, like basically make us successful product. We're building something together. We both win. So you want to establish that baseline of the person you have to go to them and say hey, like, I know we've had our differences but we both have the same goal.

14:19
We don't want to be able to ship something good like successful and reflect well for the company. And our, Differences and our conflict is only making a harder for us to do getting in the way to do that. Personally, I've thought about it and this is what you're going to apologize for the things that you can say.

14:40
I apologize if this specific made right? I did it like it or the way I said this thing I meant it in a nice way but maybe just the way I said it didn't sit with you properly and I'm sorry if it made you feel this way. So I just want you to know like from deep down that I hadn't been intentions behind why I was doing Putting these differences aside, would you do a link to continue to work with me on this thing where you think we can put this behind us and like defects in the part.

15:08
And then also my social strategies that would be useful to avoid the future. If you could say if we decrease disagree on a technical idea again, how about we list the pros and cons for each one and get some other opinions people around. That way we can get like a good sense of feedback from those around us and we don't have to make this decision.

15:29
So we can get others involved consensus at that point. Does that happen to that question? Yeah. So when it comes to these like or how did you resolve a conflict you solved some time in the past? The main signal they're looking for is like, Do you happen to be do you have the ability to?

15:56
Are about someone other than yourself to put yourself in their shoes. So you can see the world from their eyes. So with these like complex stuff, like always in your answer describe how you are like really working hard to understand a problem from their perspective. Like you just have to say that as a bullet point and you have to hit show them that you care a lot about having empathy and you play that in the past and then go back to the theme of like collaboration together.

16:29
So like that should be. Anything like another great finale. Did you talk about how? I think it was all the prior conflict like you know, what hopefully everyone like this should and hopefully it as well. Talk about how you brought people together. Either you like worse with this person, one-on-one to resolve the issue or you brought more people to solve this hard problem that YouTube is young.

16:57
Because you'll give me a little solution to get it again and how you deal with. This. However, this one. Yes, okay. You know me too actually Alex and I were talking about the yesterday. I Alexis weakness is like similar examples.

17:45
Alex, I like to ask you a question about your readings is what would you say is your biggest weakness? In question, I think my biggest weakness is that sometimes I get television. I'm trying to solve a problem and I have my own solution and I'm like too focused on that submission that I ignore the solutions presented by others and I an unable to see the big picture I my ball is just to get what I think is right to to the table as the final solution.

18:17
So, I'll give an example. When I was working at Course Hero, I was building their Android app from scratch. We had a disagreement over how we would architect the app. So, On my end. I wanted the pages in the app to go on top of each other because it's easier to manage.

18:42
So I can draw it out actually. So like if I have the app and I like, you know want to go to a different place. I have these buttons and then if I tap on the button, they'll go to a different screen. What they wanted was they essentially wanted everything to be on one screen.

19:05
So when I tap on this button, let's say it's currently has A. And then when I tap on B it gets replace. A would be. So that doing that is a lot harder because you have to maintain multiple pages in memory the leads to a lot of issues. So I wanted to use more of an activity activity-based pattern to decouple the pages from each other making easier to manage.

19:33
And it ended up being really nasty because no, I'm being I have control. So if I don't have any or something, they're nothing moves and we just spent a lot of time discussing this. I I was just so convinced that I was right that we just wasted like a lot of time going into meetings.

19:55
And then I would present my points like over and over again and people would disagree. So we spent a lot of time not really moving and in the end like my manager told me that I had to build this solution and it just wasn't really a great experience for anybody because it was there was like so much like my current I came out of it and we wasted a lot of time just to experience with each other.

20:20
So that's my greatest weakness. And in terms of like, Why that we kiss is important to me and like what I learned from it. I I realized that you always need to be viewing the bigger picture so like for me I was very focused on doing what I thought was the right thing for this particular mechanic within the app, but in the end that's not what that matters.

20:45
Like what matters in the end is the company that we're working all working for the unified mission that we're behind and the team that we're all part of. So, it doesn't really matter if I was right it's just was the best decision because Long term the the benefits were not there, there were just so many more negatives.

21:06
So even even if we make this decision correctly, that's just a short term thing. It's not like us making this decision so we'll single handedly make us the most successful company ever. What makes us successful is we have a great team where everyone like it works all about another understanding.

21:25
So I learned from this situation that sometimes you just have to sacrifice something on your end for the long-term benefit of team as a whole. So from a like a purely mathematical perspective, there's this concept called social capital which is how much do people like you how much are people willing to collaborate with you and you want as much of that as possible because the more of it you have the more efficient you guys moved together.

21:52
So I was so focused I had this puddle vision which is my weakness on essentially getting this technical benefit when In. Reality long-term meals that incorrect decision because I was losing all the social capital. I like breaking down relationship.

22:13
S.

22:21
Explain the solution is yes, so our mention like this solution for his problem, which is my specific solution problem is actually like pretty well correlated solution right if you think about them, what is the globe behind which is that it's easy to start prioritizing for the wrong parameters and case we talked about how many people prioritizing this like technical benefit, which is a real technical benefit over something.

22:56
That oh in the big picture helps the product and team move like much better right in my case my desire to look at all these different ideas and like have all these different thoughts that are spread out but I was prioritizing that over being effective and actually delivering other things like at a you know, a good rate and knowing which to choose because we all have so many ideas but it's really hard like to to know which ones are the ones that matter.

23:29
If you notice like the weaknesses that we mentioned what did they get in the way of the game of being able to be to make like actual progress right that that's the course, whatever your weakness is it's usually a weakness because it prevents you from making that progress or being effective in a certain way and when you describe your solution for it, you should focus on how you can undo that so for for Alexis strategy was let me look at the big picture and realize that social capital and a lot of cases.

24:03
Is more useful because you can use that to be more attractive and push them forward in my case I talked about focus. I wanted to focus more on how can I actually take all this ideas that I have for our scattered and all over the place and come up with themes and areas for them and then within those themes start prioritizing the ones that matter the most benefit, so it's it's it takes some time for me to fix maybe like let's say 10% of my time are 5% of my time every single day to manage this part of myself, but it's something that I'm aware of and that I have.

24:38
Created strategies to mitigate and basically I make it effective. I make it work. So if we have this student if you have we have the same ex solution, like if we have the same problem together, you can say like some more solution, but the goal is no matter what your solution.

24:55
That's the way you want to sell it, you want to sell it as like yourself aware of it, you know what the problem is and you have to mitigate it and look that's how you can be an effective employee. So like so when we come to these questions in the end our goal is to make your viewer happy you want to pass here so I think a good way to do it all these problems is like what does interviewers a couple more out of it when it comes to this they want to know that you can learn from your.

25:22
They don't want you to just tell a weakness and then leave them there right like I should just be like, oh my week is like it that's my answer to that you're gonna fail the interview they want you to give alieness how explain why it's a weakness and then you know, more importantly everything like why you recognize those weakness and like what you learn that's what they're looking for just another question supposedly is she all yeah task.

25:55
And he asked who also not to move us. This is like one of those people issues like basically going to your stupid ah, so this is one of those tricky people problems like actually one of the things about people managers like other managers are experts in these kind of problems, but at least I think you do some suggestions.

26:25
Let's say the boss of your boss comes to you and says to do something and don't tell your boss. I would actually like ask him like so like um, what's like, why are we doing so what's the purpose of us doing this thing and also like what's the danger of like telling my boss why does you know, what do you want to know behind this specification it's bigger than just him and this task and you it's a problem the company like why you want to kind of point out in a nice way as possible to show him that.

27:00
Okay in this situation or actually think that um, maybe we should rethink the course that we're taking because these kind of things can add up like to create like said a breakdown of the social capital work together in the future, how can the manager probably manage the team? Context on what we're doing and the direction of the company is going so as a good CEO you should be able to become aligned with the manager the manager and him should be on the same page interview.

27:40
Don't ask questions so this could be an existence this would be an example of like how if you got a confident distribute one of the examples of health people.

28:00
What's wrong? I would So if you're causing makes a mistake So like similar to this kind of like going like your boss box. I'll use something like the transparency thing should be the core of the year. If you're working in a company where like the transparency is like not appreciate like people want things to happen in secret and the people who are people alive stuff, you probably shouldn't work there.

28:30
So like this is a very common scenario right where like you're calling me frost ball. Like some mistake and you're not like you don't want them to make a mistake again you want like some. Some sort of accountability to happen to be assigned. So my approach here is I would just talk to the colleague directly like as we talked about in the very first day like feedback as a gift of the feedback like you know, hey notice for this, you know, you did this and this not the best outcome because of these reasons why.

29:08
Oh is there anything wrong? So the thing is. If there is no need to do. Yeah, it depends on what the problem is like so. There's a lot of cookies not going on here So of course we're probably making a mistake you want to help or the overall team talk with them directly about it that that's the most important part.

29:31
I'm directly first because if you if you talk to the boss and like oh that we finger point you go this person messed up that's it looks really bad and it doesn't seem like you know the same team right here. Essentially standing this person in the back which is like a really bad experience and of course if the boss asks you like oh was there a problem here like you should be honest with them too.

29:54
We the the goal of any team is they should be comfortable sharing any like all the problems that they have is actually more important sharing the problems within a team and with yourself than sharing the good things as excesses you had because fixing the problems is how how you make sure the team is helping in the long run.

30:14
So like to sum it all up like just the top get it feedback for your colleague directly that should be the first thing you do and then if anyone like asked about it, you should open about it and then across the entire process. Always iterate that with the person who made a mistake that you're on their side you're not just pointing your finger and trying to assign blame like you're you're trying to help them and so when it comes to stuff like this I go like oh like for the future maybe next time you work on this component.

30:43
I can help you I can review the code and we can like sit down together and make sure that we deliver something that's good and it doesn't have any problem. It has no mistakes. If you do it if you want to like if you think that the mistake is something that's worth sharing with your foster.

31:02
You should do it like a private setting not in a way that shows the computer, right? So when you say you can say like, Or your boss Taylor I know this person like they care a lot and they're good and they're trying to track their best but I notice that there's this area a little bit shorter.

31:21
I've been working with them helping them in this area, but it's just something that perspective you would only bring this up if it's something I think this is like something that might be a problem and can you could you help us find resources to support this person, what do you think supposedly like approached this issue you never wanted.

31:44
Accusatory or pointy fingers you want to come for a direction you genuinely care and like you want the best possible outcome.

31:59
Where do you for this cube where you're here or see this group over here about yes, but hello. I mean, I think that they asked my question usually what channels are those affected yeah, but they're not really judging you they're just. Yeah, it's just be honest like oh I online or my friend referred me to know hip fuel searchable person to search in Google.

32:42
I was like reading this or my friend mentioned that and you could just say how that's like, you know, maybe you think about the company because. Money you went like what about them? But yeah exactly that's why you're here but I don't those questions are usually not like to test you they're just like they want to understand like how you're doing what the company they're purposely most people here buy us from this place but I would definitely just mention like when I heard about this it made me interested because I always been interested in this area this is not a question for you to give some really inspirational larger spots to like what's the other one this one is like a two or three line thing, oh yeah, my friend referred me to your company and I really enjoy what you're doing.

33:45
What's like if you guys have more of these questions. Was this helpful to you guys yeah.

33:59
Of course zero yeah yeah, so why of course your own oh I what just to be clear like, you know, have you heard of course here before it's different of course there, of course there. It is why during your videos?

34:24
Most of your jobs are definition are not the first job so most people like, you know, when you go into interview, most of the interviews you do they can ask you this question and they will ask you this question so this is actually a very important question because it's very.

34:59
Questions. Number one you can show the homework that you've done on the company so you give it you go like oh I left this job because I was looking for XYZ and this company didn't have it no your company has XYZ therefore this is awesome that's all you should hire me and that's why I want to be here and it's also a opportunity for you to sell yourself as well, so moving on from the homework part you want to show that you're like very enthusiastic and passionate about computer science and the previous company wasn't really.

35:36
The helping you like achieve your dreams like it didn't give you the opportunities for you to grow and become a better person a better engineer so it's an opportunity for you to sell yourself to sell the personal qualities that make you that will make you a good employee if they if they were so like for for the course, you're almost specifically why I left was.

35:58
I was looking for more growth opportunities, so I was the first and great engineer at course hero. I built their app from scratch but I was unable to hire any person who was better than me at Android so my knowledge and Android it just reached a certain point and then it stopped because you can you can only teach yourself somewhere that was the main reason and the secondary reason is I have problems with the culture they were there are a lot of very powerful like managers directors like bosses like, Got higher who preferred hiding information instead of sharing information, so I mentioned those and, That gives me opportunity to show my homework right because Facebook private itself on having a very open and transparent culture where everyone shares everything and feedback feedback flows like water and it's also like a very strong company so you can make them feel good about the population.

36:59
I'm leaving it to go to Facebook is really really good at Android like Facebook has the most Android users of any company in the world, we have like thousands of Android engineers and like some of them are the absolute best Android, S in the world. So I wanted to come to Facebook to learn from them, right?

37:21
It shows that I'm always trying to get better. I'm always trying to grow and this is this that question is an opportunity for me to share. If you if you have a difficult one, you can leave it.

38:16
Google you need this person.

38:28
As.

38:40
This summer or if you the new for this our war and more salary is good of your Facebook of your current of us better. If you have a, Chance.

39:44
In building products right even higher quality and also yeah decisions. For company.

40:13
And this is also. The.

40:22
Course. Was not I should never mention unless in the last when you have like. The best possible problem to have I think. This is probably think about later but where you have many offers like that's when you can start to say like okay like, you know, I really like your company like I want to join yours.

40:45
I have this set of authors of either way like, you know, I think that I agree with you guys to make it feasible for me to join me to meet this company when negotiating offices like something that you're like, We need to focus more on winning the offers first and other people are freezing as well.

41:16
Okay.

41:46
Well.

42:06
Yeah.

42:22
Yeah.
