Are described a weakness around when you find yourself. Yeah.
It does about yourself.
Okay, so yeah, so to answer like your question of like a story or yeah, I think the best way to illustrate. Yeah so like I'll ask you later before we even get into that we want to walk you through some of the mentality if you see a common pattern.
I'm gonna talk about the three that we're sorry, why do you want to work here where do you see yourself at next years salary negotiation describe the weakness that you have these kind of questions like you need to show that you've thought about it before right so let me start with like the how much you can pay your rate, you can't just like throw out a random number you can just say.
Yes much like oh like my expenses is this much you're giving this much no way you need to you need to have a reason they should be convinced right so you should have a portfolio you can say look here's the market here's what you can get for this price look at the code if you know product well you can say look at this this is a workplace for me here's what I've done here's the level of my work, this is why I'm asking for it XML which is like, it could be market rate, it could be whatever you're comfortable with.
But it's basically think about it when you're paying the same way you're buying like whatever you're buying you want to feel confident like in spending your money there, so you can't when you do it treat it that way when you sell yourself. Know why they should be more for your special and one of the best places to show this is through a portfolio is through examples.
I've actually given some integers. I've asked them okay they talked about getting an idea and one of the common things that made the good candidacy stick out is that they had a lot of samples of their work and even like when they interviewed was done like I didn't even ask them but like within a day or two days, they sent me like a simple version or just like one screen working I finished this first screen or I did this like just to show that like they were proactive about it these are all good things.
I know that sometimes the questions you get like super technical like they'll be oh, how do you do this? Thing a lot of the time just because like you said we're just working oh I want this thing to be working done but you can even explain to them it's not it's not how it works like if you really understand them yeah yeah, like I have experience doing that.
I can show you some examples. I've had experiences kind of problems this is what the market rate is we show that other product that people have here's what we're doing that's how I think you should approach those problems because when they put you on the spot, you don't want to seem like you just thought about it right now something advanced and have evidence have proof of like what you deserve the price negotiation is definitely a plan to sell yourself and a big part of.
They won't know like what you're when we work with a designer in our in our world like our clients the designer or the products we're working with the come up with this product get the requirements from like they don't know. But we don't understand so we have to prove to them.
We do understand and we're confident in this and then help them do this behavior so in your case how do you build the confidence right where do you it doesn't come from anywhere it comes from actually having some stuff so that's why we focus a lot of technical support trying to get you to start looking at this direction and why it's important to keep practicing practicing like swimming a lot of time that's that will give you the confidence and the experience to be able to say, oh I've come across this this this problem.
I already know how to fix it. I've come across it you can look. For those and you'll see that we solve the problem. I don't understand example see if you can find an issue yeah you can yes so it's add on to that the cool thing about quite software engineering was to make this super short you can solve a lot of your problems by just building good stuff like if you are trying to build good stuff in legitimately healthy people it all just kind of flows from there so like after this payments just like how much you do baby questions build good stuff and your answer is look at what I feel like either link it to them if they're interviewing you in person is what I've done.
I pull out my phone. The app I still I show them the ratings and the number of installs and I open it and I play around with it. I show them quality that I have delivered and then I give a high number you should be fine the next thing is like work you see yourself in next year's five-year or ten years, let's think about like the purpose of this question the purpose of this question, they don't want to know like you're your dream or whatever we care about that they want to know if you have a sense of direction.
You have a vision for what you can do they don't want like this kind of questions you probably won't get them from like, you know, I freelance project but you will get them to feel quite a full-time room the reason that they say this is because they want to understand like how do you think about the space it's similar to the question that somebody mentioned before which is like what's the problem when the company and how would you fix it?
Yeah, they want to know if you have this kind of ownership mentality like can you when they bring into the organization are you going to be able to like have a level of of thought quality and more you can like identify certain problems like for example, you can come into a group and say oh but I see one of the problems is that you're saying that let's say it's like the drivers are saying is taking too long for this.
Little like I would investigate like to see what's making the earliest experiment this is like a media for the problem with PCI problem or the question about what's the problem like you talk about how you would identify a problem like your methodology for focusing on this and like mention examples of why you gotta before for the describe yourself and like five to ten years kind of thing you want to focus more on like the vision you see for like, let's say you're interviewing for a role and, I'll make something specific I'll use like a food delivery app and you're you're driving for the apartment that focuses on like beverages right you talk about like what you see the leverage market going, oh I know that one of the things I see is like we're very bad at the wintertime delivering like hot leverages and I think that one of the things that would make us stronger is if we could do like XYZ thing including infrastructure, like here are some ideas I have for what we should do in that maybe like for this specific.
Case like we could even talk to the local businesses like this is the demand that we're having but most of the services this this and that but the there's I'm talking about like the idea they want to know that you can think outside of just the scope of what you're doing, they're not going to just give you a task and say, okay this and that's all you think about they want you to know what can you think about from a organizational perspective going back like this ownership mentality yeah so zooming out from this question.
I like saying like on a high level everywhere, so like my dream actually is to be engineering manager because I enjoy collaborating with people and growing and that is a good signal to the company because it shows that because I have this dream because I passionate about it. I approach my job with energy and I actually care about what I'm doing and being an important person within the company so like at a really high level like all of these questions.
As late mentioned about like kind of zooming out on viewing the problem long term is actually like an opportunity for you to kind of like show off so don't just think about like answering the question mechanically. Think about it as an opportunity for you to show the homework that you've done so a lot of these questions you can show off like the homework that you've done o