00:00
Are described a weakness around when you find yourself. Yeah.

00:22
It does about yourself.

00:29
Okay, so yeah, so to answer like your question of like a story or yeah, I think the best way to illustrate. Yeah so like I'll ask you later before we even get into that we want to walk you through some of the mentality if you see a common pattern.

00:55
I'm gonna talk about the three that we're sorry, why do you want to work here where do you see yourself at next years salary negotiation describe the weakness that you have these kind of questions like you need to show that you've thought about it before right so let me start with like the how much you can pay your rate, you can't just like throw out a random number you can just say.

01:17
Yes much like oh like my expenses is this much you're giving this much no way you need to you need to have a reason they should be convinced right so you should have a portfolio you can say look here's the market here's what you can get for this price look at the code if you know product well you can say look at this this is a workplace for me here's what I've done here's the level of my work, this is why I'm asking for it XML which is like, it could be market rate, it could be whatever you're comfortable with.

01:52
But it's basically think about it when you're paying the same way you're buying like whatever you're buying you want to feel confident like in spending your money there, so you can't when you do it treat it that way when you sell yourself. Know why they should be more for your special and one of the best places to show this is through a portfolio is through examples.

02:13
I've actually given some integers. I've asked them okay they talked about getting an idea and one of the common things that made the good candidacy stick out is that they had a lot of samples of their work and even like when they interviewed was done like I didn't even ask them but like within a day or two days, they sent me like a simple version or just like one screen working I finished this first screen or I did this like just to show that like they were proactive about it these are all good things.

02:49
I know that sometimes the questions you get like super technical like they'll be oh, how do you do this? Thing a lot of the time just because like you said we're just working oh I want this thing to be working done but you can even explain to them it's not it's not how it works like if you really understand them yeah yeah, like I have experience doing that.

03:15
I can show you some examples. I've had experiences kind of problems this is what the market rate is we show that other product that people have here's what we're doing that's how I think you should approach those problems because when they put you on the spot, you don't want to seem like you just thought about it right now something advanced and have evidence have proof of like what you deserve the price negotiation is definitely a plan to sell yourself and a big part of.

03:50
This boot camp is to keep you the tools to build a strong portfolio too seriously we're teaching you how to become great developers to be like within that premium section of the market so that when you give them this higher the average number 20% higher the market rate what you can just buy it and I'll also add for this question do not go low because if you go low, they're gonna give you that number or lower just give you if you save low market rate that says a lot about yourself it says that you don't believe in yourself.

04:25
And huh let it go to this yes exactly and people will take advantage of that so always give at least market rate because it's it's just gonna be a world of pain if you look away and even if you go like that don't be afraid to go like a little highlight obviously don't go too high don't get like five hundred percent like market rate like like 15 25 percent should be fine if you can justify it the worst case is they'll bump you down right and you want to start an ice level what they bump you down, at least you're probably still market rate if you're already below target rate, like can't really.

05:01
Go down any further. For example, if you tell someone I know look at what there is out there. I know this is this this is why I'm remaining in 20% more than the they'll get the sense, oh this person is confident in their work, they understand things well, they know how to make something the right way.

05:21
I do think this is it's worth paying more but they'll say okay, like how about 10% more? I did the it's not about the exact number. It's all about a narrative right if you just come in and say oh like I know this is my thing with this is how much to give your here's an example whatever like they can tell that they don't feel like I should be more think about if you are buying the same thing with when you hear from someone like you you know that oh this person knows what they're talking about.

05:53
They won't know like what you're when we work with a designer in our in our world like our clients the designer or the products we're working with the come up with this product get the requirements from like they don't know. But we don't understand so we have to prove to them.

06:13
We do understand and we're confident in this and then help them do this behavior so in your case how do you build the confidence right where do you it doesn't come from anywhere it comes from actually having some stuff so that's why we focus a lot of technical support trying to get you to start looking at this direction and why it's important to keep practicing practicing like swimming a lot of time that's that will give you the confidence and the experience to be able to say, oh I've come across this this this problem.

06:45
I already know how to fix it. I've come across it you can look. For those and you'll see that we solve the problem. I don't understand example see if you can find an issue yeah you can yes so it's add on to that the cool thing about quite software engineering was to make this super short you can solve a lot of your problems by just building good stuff like if you are trying to build good stuff in legitimately healthy people it all just kind of flows from there so like after this payments just like how much you do baby questions build good stuff and your answer is look at what I feel like either link it to them if they're interviewing you in person is what I've done.

07:23
I pull out my phone. The app I still I show them the ratings and the number of installs and I open it and I play around with it. I show them quality that I have delivered and then I give a high number you should be fine the next thing is like work you see yourself in next year's five-year or ten years, let's think about like the purpose of this question the purpose of this question, they don't want to know like you're your dream or whatever we care about that they want to know if you have a sense of direction.

07:54
You have a vision for what you can do they don't want like this kind of questions you probably won't get them from like, you know, I freelance project but you will get them to feel quite a full-time room the reason that they say this is because they want to understand like how do you think about the space it's similar to the question that somebody mentioned before which is like what's the problem when the company and how would you fix it?

08:17
Yeah, they want to know if you have this kind of ownership mentality like can you when they bring into the organization are you going to be able to like have a level of of thought quality and more you can like identify certain problems like for example, you can come into a group and say oh but I see one of the problems is that you're saying that let's say it's like the drivers are saying is taking too long for this.

08:42
Little like I would investigate like to see what's making the earliest experiment this is like a media for the problem with PCI problem or the question about what's the problem like you talk about how you would identify a problem like your methodology for focusing on this and like mention examples of why you gotta before for the describe yourself and like five to ten years kind of thing you want to focus more on like the vision you see for like, let's say you're interviewing for a role and, I'll make something specific I'll use like a food delivery app and you're you're driving for the apartment that focuses on like beverages right you talk about like what you see the leverage market going, oh I know that one of the things I see is like we're very bad at the wintertime delivering like hot leverages and I think that one of the things that would make us stronger is if we could do like XYZ thing including infrastructure, like here are some ideas I have for what we should do in that maybe like for this specific.

09:50
Case like we could even talk to the local businesses like this is the demand that we're having but most of the services this this and that but the there's I'm talking about like the idea they want to know that you can think outside of just the scope of what you're doing, they're not going to just give you a task and say, okay this and that's all you think about they want you to know what can you think about from a organizational perspective going back like this ownership mentality yeah so zooming out from this question.

10:21
Agree with late a little bit here when they ask you where do you see yourself in 10 years I think it actually is important to talk somewhat about your dream a lot of these questions as late imagine is they're trying to see that you have a sense of direction because if you're someone who's just kind of going along with the flow and you're just doing what you're told you're forever like a junior employee, they want to know that you have have their feet it's not really that important like what exactly your dream is, like, you don't need to break down a specifics of the startup you want to found like, 10 years from now well you should tell them a high level that you have some sort of dream like for these questions.

11:01
I like saying like on a high level everywhere, so like my dream actually is to be engineering manager because I enjoy collaborating with people and growing and that is a good signal to the company because it shows that because I have this dream because I passionate about it. I approach my job with energy and I actually care about what I'm doing and being an important person within the company so like at a really high level like all of these questions.

11:31
As late mentioned about like kind of zooming out on viewing the problem long term is actually like an opportunity for you to kind of like show off so don't just think about like answering the question mechanically. Think about it as an opportunity for you to show the homework that you've done so a lot of these questions you can show off like the homework that you've done on the company and the space like what vision you see for like this company and I kind of love their products and then you can also show off like homework that you've done kind of funding out your future every.

12:08
Honestly, I think that's okay a company shouldn't realistically expect you to stay forever if it does creepy but I'm using the. Cover like traffic they kind of like yeah it's a similar dimensional is really like if you applied the med schools and we say that your dream is to work and I don't know if the finance industry is muscle circulating way.

12:32
I think that you should be harmless but no with like don't tell what everything like for example, you know, maybe you want to be an engineering manager without but maybe you don't see yourself at their company, but don't say that you can say I want to be engineering managers yeah maybe you can even mention some of the things that you would do if you were after company years, yeah these questions.

12:55
Portrayed you because like you actually don't like your goal isn't really to answer them completely honestly. It's very much like it like an opportunity like began to show off your homework and to present yourself, so I'll give you another example once you want to work here at this place.

13:12
I've heard stories of students who have worked with before where they have a good application they fill it out they'll find some foreign companies that came West Bank or something and then they don't even read the website of the companies they ask what what do you want to do here questions so it's very simple so.

13:40
Not like.

13:46
We're wrong so that they don't feel far from their loved ones like let's say if we delivery app it could be like we want to make sure it's. Hanging for you to get the foods that you want or something right even through it being something very personal. Very general like the other company has like our goal on our mission.

14:08
If you are applying to a specific company you have to sell it that like, you know, this is really the company that you care about because you like solving this kind of problem we're like this business so it could be even something like boring like I don't know. Medical devices like a pharmaceutical company that like has some pharmacy technology like some of you may think that's boring but you it's whatever it whatever the company does study and know what they use and why why is there important like you want to understand the why the problem we keep talking about the problem the problem behind why the company exists so like for this pharmacy example, it's a real example that I saw before and a lot of the pharmacies in the Middle East, they actually don't like, Have a list of the medicines down in the department The pharmacist has to know every single one by by something So some people created like a database of all the medicines the side effects of XYZ.

15:10
So if you go to work with that company, or you want to apply to that company like that, you should understand that read the website or even has to ask some questions like online trying to figure out what they do and like why it's important. And even like thing for a little bit like why it's important?

15:22
And then said what are the effects of this? So for this specific example, you could say this could make treatment and like drug understanding so much better. Everything It's impossible for women So this will make treatments much more effective and will make people like feel like not get the incorrect medicine.

15:41
It could like save people's lives and like talk about like the root cause of like wireless company exists. Yeah, so I we represent you insane the same thing for like 10 minutes. I hope you guys all understand if there's one thing one thing that you guys think away from all of this.

15:58
It's do your homework on the computer of life. If you forget everything except for this one thing I've seen. Here. I'm happy just do the homework on the company you're applying to that's that's amazing to remember. It actually to add on to your question just winter the CEO of Lincoln, which is very very strong technical states.

16:20
He asks you during the interview, where do you want to go after Lincoln? He assumes you're not going to be there for. Yeah, so that's part of the homework, right? Like some companies will actually appreciate you being extremely honest and telling them you won't be there forever. So at Facebook the culture is also like really open we appreciate honestly.

16:40
I have to hold my manager that I do not envision myself on Facebook. They know I'm going to eventually which will probably happen. And it's true that companies are very different like some companies have more traditional mentality.

17:00
If they ask you where you where you see yourself after you can kind of get the signal that okay this company is more open and they want me to be. I get some more traditional questions like going to you mention like when you want to see yourself. Try to understand that like this company is a little bit like.

17:20
Companies are different. You have to get a read on the same way you're going to read on a person you have to end up on be smart and clever about it and get a signal they are. Yeah, and this brings me to like the other question the weakness question.

17:34
So when people ask you what your biggest weakness. A lot of times people make the mistakes were trying to make a weakness now. I'm too much of a professionist. I care too much. Well, I worked too hard. That's not a good answer. Great. That's people are going to tell when.

17:56
You're. Be asked. So you're like something that's not true, right? So the previous kind of questions I advise you to be very honest, but also show that you are thoughtful. So like for me if somebody asked me like, what's your group's weakness? Like I can. I can they're asking us for example.

18:16
Well, that's my biggest. My second biggest. I have a lot of.

18:32
Terminology. How do I try to rise? I have a lot of ideas and I have a lot of things. I want to focus on all of things. I want to do but how can I keep focus because in order to be affected you have to keep focusing? So for in order for me to solve them.

18:55
I'm self-aware. They want to know that. Aware about yourself How do you deal with yourself because part of you being a good employee and good owner and good anything We give to manage yourself so I would say because of my behaviors like this, I actually do this. I keep a notebook where I rate I originally this is each word stream.

19:12
I'm working on this is the next things I have delivered each one. I actually prioritize the things I have to do so I put in order one, two, three, so that even if I get my focus at all, I want to do all these things. I make sure that I know a priority list for the order.

19:28
I want to do these things and the way I prioritize is like in terms of effectiveness. Or impact like which ones are the most like impactful effectively. So it's different for each person, right? It's your personal question like be as you can. Again, they want to show they want to know that you think like you're you thought about this before that you've done your homework.

19:52
So you want to show that you are self-aware, you know about yourself and you're also smart enough to figure out strategies to mitigate yours. I need not. Everybody want to blame you. But for you does not make sense.

20:24
That you respect yourself. If the challenges that you expect in this world, so so if you for those kind of questions. The requirements. So you can kind of say like look, I'm gonna go back to the food delivery example. Food delivery or maybe like most of Kenny, right? Oh, where are they expect you to do the homework for the road?

20:55
Or you should have like this is where you can rely on the homework. So if you know what the company does then you can also know okay these are the challenges that this company will face so let's use the Canadian example, right if I was applying to him and they asked me like what are the challenges that you expect I would say it's very difficult to be able to bring writers and passengers together, for example, you can like mention some if you're like an area like what about it this neighborhood?

21:23
I know it's very busy around this time and I know that many of the drivers will be in this area. I'm being very specific now point, so how do you how do we measure the supply and demand of drivers of? Way when like there's periods of like traffic and quiet traffic required right that's what Charles it requires you to think about the problem yourself, this is why we do the problem with you guys because when you train your muscle of your mind to think of everything as a problem, when you look at a company you can kind of start to get the problems that they face and get some of the challenges and then you can even start tying in technical stuff so if it's like for obviously a technical world most of you guys are applying for technical rules one day when you say like, oh well, this is going to be a challenge for this one.

22:09
Okay, oh yeah I wonder how we would even manage like the latency we're making these kind of historic how do you I wonder what kind of like algorithmic device to be able to not think you don't want to paint everything. I want a car and every single driver and good way it doesn't make sense so how do you even manage those kind of things pockets of people you want to do like how do you create profiles or understand like the likelihood of each person takes?

22:41
All those kind of things and being specific but yeah when you do your homework and you have this problem set like problem way of thinking you're able to identify these things and show that you're thoughtful like whether it's about yourself or about the company or about your weakness back to like are you thoughtful about these things?
